discuss all of this is our senior
political analysts Madan Bashar Madan
very very good to see you so when we
last spoke about a week ago and it was
before the UN Security Council was
hearing this resolution that was put
forward by America that wasn't passed
and one of the ideas that you talked
about is that one of the ways instead of
threatening Israel by with withdrawing
Aid the one of the things that America
would consider is giving them more
military aid as an incentive and that's
exactly what we've seen happen since the
UN Security Council passed that
resolution since the icj told Israel to
allow more humanitarian Aid into Gaza
it's not doing either of those things
and yet the US has approved more weapons
to Israel it's uh it's mind bugling uh
for for an observer for an objective
Observer it's mind bugling for a student
of international relations and of
American policy in the Middle East
there's hardly anything surprising there
that's why it wasn't genius on my part
to predict that I think there's a
pattern there in US Israel relations and
in American relations with its uh uh
allies around the world and usually
they're not exactly the good guys
they're the most autocratic regimes
usually but the way the United States
uses Leverage is possibly to reduce Aid
especially military aid for autocratic
regimes and I think the occupation
regime is probably one of the most Auto
ratic regimes or increase Aid military
aid and I think the United States
generally leans towards increasing aids
for two reasons
one it has even more leverage on the
country and its use of that Aid that
military aid two because it's very good
for the military industrial complex in
the United States but is it effective if
the United States really wants Israel to
scale down its operations in Gaza if it
wants Israel to protect civilians not go
into Rafa where at least 1.5 million
civilians are is giving them more
weapons going to deter them from doing
those things that the US says they want
Israel to do but does
it does
it the last six months has shown us that
the Biden Administration speaks out of
both sides of its mark on the one hand
the rhetoric is we want less civilian
casualties we want the genocide to be a
bit humane a contradiction in term we
want you to have maybe a few pauses we
want you to be a bit more reasonable
we're not looking good around the world
our standing in the region is uh
deteriorating the international public
opinion is up in arms there are
investigations at the icj there is a un
Council un Security Council and so on so
forth that's the rhetoric in reality and
you have been and you and I have been
looking at this for the last six months
America has never stopped supporting
Israel policy on the ground in real
terms since October 7 from the very
beginning Biden and Netanyahu agreed
that they're going to have to defeat
Hamas that they must defeat Hamas and
that America will protect Israel if
others will step in like hisbah or
whoever the hthis and and America did
exactly that yeah and now Israel is
bombing Syria bombing hisbah and others
in Syria and so on so forth but and
America is increasing the military aid
because America and Israel strategically
speaking they are still in agreement
politically speaking they might have
some minor disagreements but
strategically speaking unfortunately and
I say that with with heavy heart that
Biden has been dealing cynically with
this question I was shocked today before
yesterday or three days ago when
President former president Obama said
that Biden deals with Israel
with moral Clarity moral Clarity it
seems to me like more moral bankruptcy
yeah it's really surprising coming from
a President Obama knowing how he felt
about Netanyahu was there any chance
that Israel was ever going to follow a
un Security Council resolution or what
the international court of justice asked
it to do if America was just going to
increase weapons when that is perhaps
the greatest leverage that the US has
with Israel that's exactly what I was
that's why I sounded like I was the the
odd man out the past few days because I
was quite you know skeptical about the
UN security C resolution having any
meaning or any uh effect on the ground
because Israel was definitely not going
to abide by it and the United States is
not going to do anything about Israel
not doing anything about it and in fact
Israel is going to speed up its uh
bombardment in Gaza and it will probably
be invading Raa so not only has not that
helped over the past several months but
in fact everything that Netanyahu and
his generals band of generals and
fascists and Fanatics in the cabinet
everything they said and I say that
again with truly heavy heart about the
crisis of humanity that we live in
nowadays after
32,000 children women and civilians have
have been killed is that everything they
said from the very few first days in
October they continue to do it today
despite all the public protest despite
all the intern law International
Community UN resolution so on so forth
everything they spoke of about the
Invasion the land Invasion about the
bombing about the destruction of Gaza
about the heavy price that Gaza is going
to pay about the fact that they're going
to stay there that they're going to
create a security Zone and that they're
going to bring the Arabs in in order to
police under their security supervision
yeah all of that is happening today it
is incred and all of it has been allowed
to happen my one thank you very much
that's our senior political IC analyst
Maran
bashara